‎THIS STORY IS A FICTION AND ALL NAMES OF
‎FIGURES AND ORGANIZATIONS ARE FICTITIOUS
‎MOREOVER, THE STORY HAS NO RELATION
‎TO REAL-LIFE INCIDENTS AND EVENTS
SWEETS
How much is this?
What is all this, Granny?
It seems to be an order from Maomao.
Again?
Looks like it'll bring in good money.
Deliver it as instructed.
Understood.
It’s beautiful.
I was thinking of displaying it
in my room.
Are you doing well today?
Ah, yes.
After the garden party, the Lord Shishou
requested additional maids.
But with this many maids...
Yes.
This will make it difficult for the other
ladies to keep their dignity.
Good day to you.
Consort Loulan.
- Oh? Are you looking for something?
- Ah, no.
If it's Maomao, she's in the clinic.
Spring has come.
What are you doing?
What do you mean by "what"?
I'm making perfume oil.
I was cleaning the medical office
and found the distillation equipment.
These are the leftover roses I prepared
when making blue roses the other day.
That’s quite a strong smell.
Compared to wild roses, it's weaker.
Is there something you need?
With a scent this strong,
anyone would be curious.
Doing this here is a bit difficult
compared to the Jade Pavilion.
That’s true, but...
some perfume oils have an effect
that terminates pregnancy.
Although I don't think it will be
a problem unless it’s really strong.
Then, should the perfumes used
in the rear palace be regulated?
No, it shouldn't be a problem.
The quack doctor is a good person,
but talks too much.
I shouldn’t let anyone know
about Lady Gyokuyou's pregnancy yet.
What about this?
I’m distilling alcohol.
If you distill it multiple times,
it becomes stronger.
Are you going to drink it?
It’s for disinfecting.
At the Jade Pavilion
where the small princess is,
I want to keep it as clean as possible.
Can you really do that?
You can soak cloth in it
and use it for cleaning,
among other things.
You sure know a lot.
In the West, they use it that way, right?
I believe your foster father...
I’ve brought your luggage.
What is this?
This is something for the young lady...
Lord Jinshi, I’ll prepare tea,
so please sit down.
What’s inside?
This is just a small package
from my family, nothing special.
From your family?
Jeez, what a guy!
It’s just some undergarments.
Ah, I see.
But for two men to bring it,
what material is this
undergarment made of?
- Damn.
- Huh?
The problem at the rear palace is,
being a virgin is demanded.
Most of the women servants gathered
in the rear palace are virgins.
Even if they’re favored by the Emperor,
if they make a mistake
due to ignorance, it’s pitiful.
They need to study in advance.
So, you prepared this for them?
If you're wondering what book it is,
it's that one.
I had it delivered to the medical office
so Hongniang wouldn’t find out.
I ordered it for the Emperor
since he loves to read.
And I ordered a bit more,
hoping to expand the market,
but perhaps it was bad timing.
- Huh?
- This is...
It’s been made quite beautifully.
It’s made with good paper.
Oh, I thought
he was going to criticize it.
Books like this are sometimes
used as dowries.
Even those who can't read
can enjoy the illustrations,
so there's a demand for these.
Is it a woodblock print?
No, it’s printed using metal plates,
not woodblocks.
That’s impressive.
Yes! Since it’s such a fine product,
I think it should be seen by more people.
However, this is a different matter.
If you like it, you should keep a copy.
No, that’s not it.
I’m definitely not thinking that!
Well, this time I suppose,
I’ll let it slide.
Is that okay?
Tell me the name of the store
where this is sold.
I told you, that’s not it!
I just want to know how they print it.
Yes, I understand.
The name of the store, right?
Xiaomao!
What is it?
I think risqué items might
need censorship.
But the Emperor said
the previous ones didn't have enough.
Not allowed.
The shrewd lady worked
so hard to select them.
Beneath the beautiful flowers in bloom,
what am I searching for?
Hey, what do you think is buried here?
Horse manure?
See, it's because you're too greedy.
It's all your fault, Maomao!
This novel is super popular right now!
Can you read, Xiaolan?
I can't read.
But the ones who can read
read it aloud for everyone else.
I can't wait to find out
what happens next!
If even illiterate maids are
talking about it,
it must be incredibly popular.
I'm back.
What’s that?
His Majesty distributed it
to all his consorts.
He said once we're done reading it,
to please share it with others.
Maomao, want to give it a read?
Looks like it's the same one
Xiaolan mentioned...
A popular novel, huh?
It's not considered very refined
among the upper class, and yet...
Why would he...?
This mark... it’s the one
I showed Lord Jinshi the other day.
Even for a novel, the quality is fit
for a gift from the Emperor.
And if all the consorts received a copy,
there must have been at least 100 printed.
Lord Jinshi probably requested it
from the Emperor.
I should've taken a commission for that.
But why?
Why distribute something considered
indecent to well brought up consorts...?
I know it must have something
to do with politics,
but he's definitely up to something.
Ah, it’s already over.
I want to read the next part soon.
Lord Gaoshun said
when a new one is made,
he’ll distribute it again.
What’s wrong?
Aren’t we the only maids
serving the Jade Pavilion?
It feels wasteful for only us
to enjoy something gifted by Her Highness.
But we can’t give it to
anyone outside the palace.
We need to handle it carefully.
If it gets lost, it’ll be a problem.
You’re right.
Instead of giving out the booklet itself,
why not copy it by hand?
The illustrations might be difficult,
but Ailan, you have lovely handwriting.
It shouldn’t be a problem.
Do you think so?
Would you really bother doing that?
Yinghua, don’t say such things.
If it aligns with Lord Jinshi's intent,
this is probably the right answer.
If books spread
throughout the inner palace,
more people will try to learn how to read.
If it’s a popular novel, even better.
When I was a maid serving Lord Jinshi,
I was asked this question.
Apothecary, how can we improve
the literacy rate of the women in service?
Even so, it’s quite a roundabout way
of going about it.
Hey, Maomao!
I want you to teach me
how to read and write!
What's up with that?
The girl who always reads the novel
for me has read it too many times,
and now she lost her voice.
She made a copy of the book for me,
but I can’t read.
- Then let me read it for you.
- No, that’s not allowed!
She spent so much time writing it,
I can’t cheat like that.
- You’re amazing...
- What’s this all of a sudden? What?
This is your name.
Try writing it by copying me.
Got it.
XIAOLAN
My name is actually
quite difficult, isn’t it?
The more you write, the more you can read,
but do you want to just learn how to read?
Since I’m here,
I want to learn to write too.
Once I leave the palace,
I’ll have to find my own job,
so being able to write
will be useful, right?
- What? What?
- In your own little way.
You seem to be thinking about your future.
Well then, let’s try to study more.
Okay. Thanks.
What is this called?
- Winter worm, summer grass.
- How about this?
Mandala flower.
- What’s this?
- Kudzu root.
Oh...
Are these words used on a daily basis?
First, let's start with greetings.
And then?
Has Princess Lingli been granted
permission to go for a walk?
Yes, since staying only within the palace
is getting a bit cramped,
I decided to ask about it.
She’s running around everywhere now.
What do you think, Maomao?
Given her health,
I think it’s better to increase
her opportunities to go outside.
There will be two eunuchs as guards,
but could you accompany her
along with Hongniang?
Understood.
Until now, all of the emperor’s children
have died young.
It might seem overly protective
for just a walk, but it can't be helped.
Maomao, you know so much
about flowers and creatures,
so could you teach those things
to Lingli during your walk?
Lady Gyokuyou, that’s not a good idea.
She’ll only teach her useless things.
I think it’ll be useful.
We don’t know where she might
marry in the future, right?
Although she’s still young,
in about ten years,
she might be married off somewhere.
If she goes to another country,
there’s no guarantee she’ll be welcomed.
Knowledge of medicine and poison
will never be harmful.
She truly is a wily consort.
Reactions to the princess vary.
Everyone has their own view
of the princess.
Eventually, the princess herself will
understand the meaning behind those gazes.
That is primrose.
Oh, Princess!
Ah, Princess!
Princess! That’s not allowed.
I will go look.
A kitten?
Almost...
Kitty! Meow, meow.
Princess!
Meow!
I'll try to catch it...
I have no choice.
Got you!
Do you want this?
Huh? It looked like you were
trying to catch it.
Was I wrong?
- Ah, thank you.
- Here.
Maybe this little one is hungry.
I'll leave the rest to you.
Alright then.
Maomao, is that...
Yes, it's a cat.
It's dirty,
so it would be best if the princess
doesn't touch it.
You... you're right.
For now, let's take it in.
- I’ll inform the higher-ups.
- Understood.
Oh, that's rare. It's a kitten.
I found it.
Poor little thing, it’s trembling.
I just finished boiling some water.
Wait a moment.
But still, it’s strange.
There are hardly any pets
in the inner palace.
Keeping animals requires permission,
and for cats and dogs,
sterilizing is mandatory.
I wonder where this kitten was born?
Put the hot water in a sake bottle
wrapped in a cloth like this,
and place it near the cat like this.
You seem to know a lot.
I once found one before.
It was a lovely calico cat.
Oh?
It’s quite thin, isn’t it?
Do you have milk from livestock?
Should I get some from the dining hall?
Also, livestock intestines.
In... intestines?!
I thought it would take the place
for the parent cat's nipple.
Since sausage was served a few times,
maybe the kitchen has some.
Got it, I’ll ask.
Now, ideally, I’d like to bathe it,
but in its current state,
it doesn’t have the strength.
So instead, I’ll wipe its dirty body
with a hand towel
and use oil to kill the fleas.
Hey, young lady, we’ve got goat’s milk!
I also managed to get intestines.
Thank you very much.
So cute! So adorable!
That night, the Emperor
visited the Jade Pavilion.
I’ve decided to keep the kitten.
I’ll leave its care to you.
The Emperor is quite the doting parent.
For Maomao, taking care of a kitten
fits her perfectly, given her name.
Once the kitten regained some strength,
I washed its body
with soap bean detergent.
Oh, the water’s turned grey.
After feeding it milk for a while,
it got healthier.
It started eating shredded chicken.
When we placed a wooden box
filled with sand,
it began relieving itself on its own.
It’d be terrible
if it scratched the princess.
How’s the parenting going?
I think it should be fine
to show it to the princess soon.
I see.
Are those small fish?
They’re a bit hard as-is,
so should I boil them?
Yes, you're right.
Is it female?
Yes. I’m relieved
we don’t need to neuter it--
I apologize.
No, no need to be so formal.
As an apology, perhaps some tea sweets...
It wouldn’t be appropriate to serve these.
Would you like to try?
I don’t particularly like cats.
With that name?
I get that a lot.
You, on the other hand,
seem like a cat lover, Lord Jinshi.
Not as much as those two.
I can’t quite understand
what’s so appealing about them.
Same here.
But according to cat lovers,
it’s the mystery of not knowing what
they’re thinking that makes them charming.
Just watching them becomes so captivating
that you can’t look away.
Eventually, you feel like touching them.
Even though they’re usually indifferent,
It's frustrating that they only
warm up to you when food is given.
When it gets to that point,
it seems people just give up.
Squishing their paws or kissing them...
it’s unsanitary if you ask me.
What’s the matter, Lord Jinshi?
I think I’m starting to understand.
Is that so?
In the end, where the kitten came from
remained a mystery.
It was concluded that the cat sneaked
into a cart entering the rear palace.
Afterward, the kitten was given
a grand title, "Rat Exterminator,"
by the Emperor himself.
In short,
it was tasked with getting rid of
the rats from the medical storage.
MAOMAO
However...
The fact that its name became "Maomao"
is something I can't accept.
Let’s tidy this up quickly.
That’s right, the caravan
will be arriving soon.
Caravan?
NEXT EPISODE PREVIEW
The next episode is "Caravan."
Subtitle translation by:
Abhishek Chand Ramola